  

**1.1: PROFESSIONAL SOFTWARE DEV**

  

1. Software engineering is to support professional software development which is usually in teams, is not personal and is usually for business intentions.
2. A professionally developed software is usually more than just a single program: docs, configs, multiple programs, etc.
3. Systems engineering: concerned with all aspects of computer based systems development including hardware, software and process engineering. Software engineering is just a part of this.

  

1. Two types of software products:
    
    1. _Generic products:_ Stand alone systems that are produced by a dev organization and sold on the open market to any customer who is able to buy them. Example: apps, word processors, code editors, etc. Also includes programs like tally that are built for specific applications or markets.
    2. _Customized software:_ These are systems commissioned by and developed for a particular customer. A software contractor designs and implements the software especially for that customer. example: control systems for electronics.
    3. Key difference is that the dev organization controls the product specification in generic products, whereas customized products, the client who’s buying the software develops and controls the specs.
    
      
    

**1.1.1 Software Engineering**

  

1. Softtware Engineering is an _**engineering discipline**_ that is concerned with _**all aspects**_ of software production from the early stages of system specification through to maintaining the system after it has gone to use.
2. Software process: approach/ sequence of activities that leads to the production of a software product:
    1. Specification: software definition, constraints and what it can do
    2. development: design and programming
    3. validation: checked to ensure that it is what the customer requires
    4. Evolution: modifications to reflect changing customer/market needs.

  

1. Four Issues that affect different types of software:
    
    1. Heterogeneity: Systems vary hugely over networks and types of devices. Challenge is to develop techniques for building dependable software that is flexible enough to cope with this.
    2. Business and social change: Challenge is to reduce time required to deliver software.
    3. Security and trust:
    4. Scale: development across wide range of scales. Small embedded systems in portable devices to large cloud based systems for a community.
    
      
    

**1.1.2: SWE Diversity**

1. There are several classes of applications:

  

**Stand-alone applications** These are application systems that run on a personal

computer or apps that run on a mobile device. They include all necessary func-  
tionality and may not need to be connected to a network. Examples of such  

applications are office applications on a PC, CAD programs, photo manipula-  
tion software, travel apps, productivity apps, and so on.  

  

**Interactive transaction-based applications** These are applications that execute  
on a remote computer and that are accessed by users from their own computers,  
phones, or tablets. Obviously, these include web applications such as e-commerce  
applications where you interact with a remote system to buy goods and services.  
This class of application also includes business systems, where a business  
provides access to its systems through a web browser or special-purpose client  
program and cloud-based services, such as mail and photo sharing. Interactive  
applications often incorporate a large data store that is accessed and updated in  
each transaction.  

  

**Embedded control systems** These are software control systems that control and

manage hardware devices. Numerically, there are probably more embedded sys-  
tems than any other type of system. Examples of embedded systems include the  

software in a mobile (cell) phone, software that controls antilock braking in a  
car, and software in a microwave oven to control the cooking process.  

  

**Batch processing systems** These are business systems that are designed to pro-  
cess data in large batches. They process large numbers of individual inputs to  

create corresponding outputs. Examples of batch systems are periodic billing  
systems, such as phone billing systems, and salary payment systems.  
  

**Entertainment systems** These are systems for personal use that are intended to  
entertain the user. Most of these systems are games of one kind or another,  
which may run on special-purpose console hardware. The quality of the user  

interaction offered is the most important distinguishing characteristic of enter-  
tainment systems.  

  

**Systems for modeling and simulation** These are systems that are developed by  
scientists and engineers to model physical processes or situations, which include  
many separate, interacting objects. These are often computationally intensive  
and require high-performance parallel systems for execution.  

  

**Data collection and analysis systems** Data collection systems are systems that

collect data from their environment and send that data to other systems for pro-  
cessing. The software may have to interact with sensors and often is installed in  

a hostile environment such as inside an engine or in a remote location. “Big  
data” analysis may involve cloud-based systems carrying out statistical analysis  
and looking for relationships in the collected data.  

  

**Systems of systems** These are systems, used in enterprises and other large organ-  
izations, that are composed of a number of other software systems. Some of  

these may be generic software products, such as an ERP system. Other systems  
in the assembly may be specially written for that environment.